Well we've come a long way to get our character sculpted really apologized and U.V. mapped.
Now we need to work on baking that high resolution sculpt information down to the low poly object here.
But a couple of people have pointed out that I made a mistake on the last video and that is I duplicated
before I mirrored the objects over and I didn't need to duplicate.
Let me show you what I mean here.
If I select this object and tab into edit mode and I'm going to hover over the glove and press the L
key.
Now I'm going to just move this out.
You can see there's an extra object here.
What I really needed to do was just separate the object and then mirror rather than duplicate separate
and mirror.
So I just need to go through and delete these.
I've gone ahead and created an annotation on that previous video to let people know they don't need
to do that.
So I just go through and delete these extra pieces.
All right with that cleaned up let's go ahead and begin working on baking out a normal map.
So I have the high resolution objects over here in layers two and one what I'll need to do is select
all these objects and then select the low poly version.
And we're going to bake this scoped information to a normal map so to do that I mean I go back to my
EUV editing screen lay out here because this gives me a view of just about everything I need to do this.
The only thing I don't have is the outliner and the properties panel I think I just want to add those.
So when I go up here to this little corner tab and just pull out here and then I want to change this
to the properties panel which is here.
And then I also want to pull down a nother window right here and I want to make this one the outliner
because I need to be able to see all of this and then we go.
So when baking a normal map the first thing we need is an image to bake too.
So going to come over here to the U-V editing window and I'm going to click on the plus icon here to
create a new image.
And let's call this character underscore INHO or for normal map I'm going to increase the resolution
of this map to 2048.
And this of course is going to change depending on the needs of your game.
I'm going to begin at 2048 if it needs to be smaller in the future I can always reduce the size in GIMP
or Photoshop but 2048 I think will work just fine.
And I want the type to be blank so I'll just click OK.
And here it is.
Now notice that there's an asterix down here by the image menu and that means that this particular image
has not yet been saved to the hard drive.
If I come in here to image and click save as image then it'll give me a place where I can put it.
I'm going to go ahead and put it here in the baking folder that I've created and I'll just click save
as.
Now the thing to remember is the save up here under file saved seen is a different save than the save
down here.
For save as image so you'd need to do both.
If you don't save the image down here when you exit out of the scene you'll lose that image.
Now the next thing I want to do is add that image up in the node Ed. If I go over here to my low poly
character and select that you can see I've got an image node here for that test pattern for the checker
pattern that we use during U-V mapping what I need to do is switch this to that normal map image now.
So I'll change that there.
I can also pull this off.
Here I don't even need a connection.
I just need that image node to be here in the node editor.
Keep in mind that this is for the cycle's render engine and not the Blendr internal.
Now he's looking kind of strange here I'm going to turn this off go back to solid viewport shading here.
All right so I have my image node up here.
I have my new image down in the movie editing window.
That's good.
Another thing I should do is let's just select the low poly character right now and I want to come over
here to the tools tab and I want to click smooth under the shading area just so he smoothed out a bit
like this and this smoothing will transport into a game engine.
Now if I went to the modifiers panel here an added subdivision surface modifier to smooth it that isn't
going to transfer but this kind of smoothing will.
All right.
So I'm going to bring back layers one into and now what I want to do.
Let's go over to the render panel and take a look at the back section which is way down here on the
bottom.
And this is where we'll select what kind of texture map we want to bake out.
So for the bake type I want to change this to normal.
And I also want to enable this selected to active.
And what that means is when multiple objects are selected Blendr sees the last object you choose or
select as the active object and all the others as selected.
So I'll just need to select all of these objects and then select the low poly character last.
So it's the active so I'll come over here to the outliner and just begin shift's selecting these objects.
So I'm just going to select them all.
I'm going to skip over the low poly character
and then I'm going to shift select the low poly character last now the other setting I want to change
is this re distance here.
It can be between 0 and 1 and it is how far Blendr will look to find the high poly object.
So I'm just going to go ahead and just increase this to one.
I haven't yet found a problem for just having it up all the way.
This check box here when it's on it will clear this black out of the image and then lay the normal map
onto it.
If I uncheck it it will keep the black background.
I'm just going to go ahead and keep it checked so you can see what happens.
All right so now that I've done that I'm going to go ahead and click back and there it goes you can
see you've got a progress bar up here at the top.
And since this is such a high resolution character it's going to take a bit to bake.
And there we go.
There's our normal map.
Now I'm going to hover over here and press control up arrow just so we can make this full screen and
take a look at it and you can see that high resolution detail that's been captured here from the shoulder
armor the face the torso.
Let me hit Control up arrow again and come back here and notice again we have an asterix down here by
the image menu.
Let's go ahead and save this so we don't lose it save as image and we'll go ahead and save it here.
So now we have our normal map.
All right.
Well how about an Ambien occlusion map.
You can change this over here from normal to ambient occlusion right here and bake out in ambient occlusion
map while we're at it.
The problem is keep in mind that an Ambien occlusion map uses the render settings render sampling settings
to do the bake.
So I need to scroll up here and under sampling I need to be sure and increase the render samples up
to something where I won't get a lot of grain and pixelization.
So I've got my render samples up to 100.
I think that should probably work pretty well.
So I'll come back down to the bake area and with ambient occlusion the selected bake this out as well
but if I hit this now it would just clear what I already have and put the ambient occlusion right over
it so I'd lose my normal map.
So what I need to do is just create a new image click the plus change this to a character underscore
a 0 for ambient occlusion.
2048 is what I had before that's good and blank and click OK.
So now there is the image I'll lay down for my ambient occlusion over here I need to change that image
in the image texture node.
So I'll change it to character a show instead of a.r And just for good measure I'll go ahead and save
this.
Out to the hard drive as character AOT.
All right now I'm ready.
I'll come over here to the back panel and just click back OK there is our ambient occlusion map and
this is just a map that's baking out the contacts shadows of all the objects you can see them here.
We need to remember to save the image.
Go ahead and just click save image.
Alt s.
And there we go.
We should probably go ahead and test these.
Let's test these image maps in a game engine like unity.
So I'm going to go ahead and come back here to the low poly character and just select it and I'll go
to the third layer there.
Let's just select it and I want to export this out as an FBI X. I'll go to a file export and I'll choose
FDX and I'll be sure and choose a selected object because I only want to export out the low poly character
and I'll call this baking test and export.
All right.
Let's open up unity now.
OK here in Unity.
I just need to import my character and my image maps.
So all I need to do is just drag them in here's the folder where I save the FBI X the normal map and
the ambient occlusion.
I'll just take my X file and drag it into the assets window and then out grab my normal map and drag
it in and my am going occlusion So to be able to see this I just need to take the character and drag
it into the scene.
I'll then zero with out in the inspector here in the position X Y and Z and with it select it I'll just
hit the F key to frame it up.
So there he is now over here in the material.
I just need to bring in the normal map and the ambient occlusion.
I'm going to zoom in a bit so we can see him just a little bit better so you can see we've got him in
here with just a default shader on him.
So I'll just drag in the normal map over here into the normal map slot and you can see it says this
texture is not marked as a normal map fix now so I'll just click that and now you can see we should
have our normal map information on our character.
You can see that information from the shoulder armor there and then I'll also drag in the Amul occlusion
map into the occlusion slot and that'll give us some contact shadows and there we go.
Now we can see our high resolution information on our character will in the next part of the series
we'll begin texture painting our character using Blender's texture painting tools as well as GIMP.